Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
At this time would you please
welcome Matthew Formica,
Cocoa and Developer Tool Evangelist.
Good morning and welcome to you all.
This is session 404,
Fundamentals of Cocoa.
My name is Matthew Formica.
As was said,
I'm the Cocoa evangelist here at Apple.
I would love to, throughout the week and
through the coming weeks,
get your thoughts,
ideas and comments on Cocoa.
You can email me at mformica@apple.com.
After yesterday's keynote sessions,
today and for the remainder of the
week we're going to dive down into
some of the technologies that make
Mac OS X the great platform that it is.
One of those technologies is Cocoa,
Apple's object-oriented,
rapid application development framework.
And here to talk to us about
that today is Ali Ozer,
who's been involved with Cocoa and
architecting Cocoa for over 15 years.
He really knows his stuff.
Please join me in giving a
warm welcome to Ali Ozer,
manager of the Cocoa team.
I'm glad you found your
way to session 404,
Fundamentals of Cocoa.
I'm Ali Ozer,
manager of the Cocoa Frameworks team.
So,
we have a lot of material to cover today,
and just to give you an overview
of what we're going to talk about,
quickly cover what's Cocoa,
then give you a quick
overview of Objective-C,
which is the background you
need to see some of our demos.
And the rest of the talk,
the bulk of the talk,
will be demos where we're going
to see the wonder of Cocoa.
We're going to do demos, write some code,
and get some applications running
right in front of your eyes,
so you can see what Cocoa is all about.
So first of all, what is Cocoa?
It's an object-oriented API for
doing full-featured application
development on Mac OS X.
When we think of Cocoa,
we think of frameworks.
Now, frameworks on Mac OS X,
frameworks are basically just libraries.
You're probably familiar with frameworks.
There's the Carbon Framework,
QuickTime Framework, etc.
Frameworks are just libraries which
have come bundled with resources,
headers.
Frameworks also,
in the traditional Mac OS 9 definition,
like Mac App, include a programming
environment where the application
doesn't run the event loop.
It's not actively running the event loop,
but instead it's getting callbacks
from the framework environment.
And Cocoa certainly fits
that definition of framework,
where it is giving callbacks
to your application,
and we'll see that in action today.
So the two frameworks that make up Cocoa,
the core Cocoa,
our foundation and application kit,
and there are many other frameworks that
participate in making up what's Cocoa.
And there are the languages,
Objective-C and Java.
Objective-C is the
native language of Cocoa,
what Cocoa is written in.
We'll see a little bit of
Objective-C in a while.
And Java is also,
is dynamic language as Objective-C,
and it works well with Cocoa.
And tools, Xcode and Interface Builder,
you've seen probably both
of them yesterday in the
keynote and other sessions,
and we'll see those today as well,
and how they're crucial in
developing Cocoa applications.
So let's now talk about
the two frameworks:
Foundation and Application Kit.
Foundation is the core Cocoa framework
for non-UI functionality.
If you are writing an application
which has no graphics user interface,
no menus, windows,
etc., you would use the
Foundation framework.
Foundation includes the root class,
which is NSObject.
Almost all Cocoa classes
are derived from NSObject.
It includes operating system facilities,
so you don't have to drop down into
Unix layer if you don't want to.
You can use the classes in Foundation.
It's got classes for
internationalization.
Of note here is NSString,
which is a class you
will encounter a lot.
It's the class that represents
character strings in Cocoa.
We have collection classes in Foundation.
Classes for scripting,
both making your applications
scriptable and being able to drive
scripting for other applications.
And also classes for
XML processing and web access.
Some of these were added in Panther,
and new ones are also coming in in Tiger.
And there's a rich set of classes
now in Foundation for letting
you do XML and web-related stuff.
And much more.
AppKit,
also known as the Application Kit,
is the Cocoa framework for creating
applications with user interfaces.
[Transcript missing]
So the strengths of Cocoa,
as I said earlier,
Cocoa is full-featured and powerful,
which means it's got features
that let you create applications
that you can ship on Mac OS X.
As you know, as you probably know,
most of the applications that
ship with Mac OS X are Cocoa,
and there are also a lot of third-party
powerful applications out there.
So it lets you create
full-featured applications.
They're not just toy apps.
It's also consistent and easy to use.
The APIs for Cocoa are,
it's not a very huge API,
and it's consistently named.
There's also a few design patterns
that we use over and over.
So once you learn a little bit of Cocoa,
once you start getting
into some aspect of Cocoa,
you start being able to predict what
other Cocoa functionality looks like.
In addition,
you're able to develop your own
functionality that's consistent
with what Cocoa delivers,
which makes everything
fit together much better.
Cocoa is also customizable and
extensible because it's object-oriented.
If we didn't provide the
exact functionality you need,
you can usually subclass and
extend the classes we gave
you to do what you want to do.
It's also tuned for Mac OS X.
Cocoa is not some layer on top of some
layer on top of some layer held together
with some weak object-oriented stuff.
It's a powerful object-oriented
environment that plugs
well into Mac OS X,
takes advantage of Mac OS X's strengths,
and the various other libraries
available on Mac OS X,
you know, Unix, Quartz, et cetera.
And Cocoa plays well with others.
Cocoa is written in Objective-C.
Objective-C, as we'll see in a minute,
is primarily a C-based environment.
And so with Cocoa,
you can use any C or C++ or Unix library
that's available to you on the system.
In addition,
a lot of open source packages,
a lot of other Unix packages out there
can be used from Cocoa applications with
absolutely no difficulty whatsoever.
There's one thing we
like to say about Cocoa,
and that simple things are simple
and complex things are possible.
The things that most
applications should be doing,
things that are
straightforward and simple,
it's just,
you can go ahead and do it and it's
almost no work or a few lines of code.
But if you want to do unique
things in your application,
things that are out of the ordinary,
things that will distinguish
your application,
then Cocoa makes that possible as well.
Okay, so let's just do a quick demo
of your first application.
I say application because it's
not going to involve much code,
or any code.
So you see an Xcode.
I'm going to go ahead
and create a new project.
When you say new project,
you get a bunch of choices,
one of them being Cocoa application.
There's also other choices
for document-based apps,
etc.
And we'll give it a name: MyApp.
Now when you create an
application in Cocoa,
it gives you the few
files to get started.
You'll notice that one
of those files is main.m.
It's basically a boilerplate,
just calls the function
to get things started.
We almost never modify this file.
Another file of interest is the nib file,
mainmenu.nib.
This is the file that contains
your application's user interface.
Very small apps will have one of these.
More sophisticated apps
will typically have two,
three, dozens,
maybe many dozens of interface files.
These are created in Interface Builder,
and this is where you
define your user interface.
I'm going to double-click on this
now to open it in Interface Builder.
You'll notice that
Interface Builder launches.
You have a design window.
You have a window that
represents your menu.
And you also, down here,
have your document window,
which represents the various objects
that are in your interface file.
This is your palette window,
where you have various standard
controls that come out of the box,
and you can also add your own
custom controls here as well.
For instance, one thing we can do is
drag out a text object.
Notice that as you're placing it down,
Interface Builder is helping you
[Transcript missing]
You bring up the info panel,
the inspector, to a
To modify the characteristics
of widgets you drag from here.
For instance,
in the case of the text object,
you can choose its color,
you can change its border,
you can say that undo is allowed,
you can choose various
other options here.
I don't know if you can read that.
I'll show you some others.
For instance, I can drag out a slider.
With a slider you can choose its minimum,
maximum, etc.
Things you might expect.
Now back to our text view.
If you look at this tab here,
you see there's connections, outlets,
target actions.
We'll talk about that in a few minutes.
There's a size inspector,
which lets you change the
various sizing behaviors.
If you choose the internal springs,
that means the text object
will size as the window sizes.
And let's also drag out a button.
Now, typically in Interface Builder,
one way you do your development is to
put your UI together and you go ahead and
say "test interface." When you do that,
Interface Builder starts
running your application using
the interface you created.
Now note that the slider is alive,
it's not doing much, the button is alive,
it's not doing much,
and in fact the text object is alive.
It even has features like a font panel.
I can change the font here.
And it even has undo,
because earlier I said that undo
should be allowed in this text object.
I can resize the window.
Notice that the text object resizes,
and these buttons stay relative
to the lower left corner.
So typically, you use this test interface
to test your interface if you
have objects in the palette.
Now,
if you develop custom objects that are
not yet in the palette window here,
then you can't do them in test interface.
You typically build your application to
take your application to the next level.
Of course, you can always build
your own palette objects,
put them here,
and that way you can test your
interface in Interface Builder.
Okay, so one other thing to note about
NIV files is when we did this,
we generated the NIV file.
Note that the NIV file
has no source code in it.
It just saves, archives the objects that
we're using here—the window,
the slider, the button—and it archives
the connections between them,
as we'll see in a few minutes.
So there's no source code generated.
Okay, now let's go back to slides so we
can play some with source code.
Thank you.
Okay, so in that demo we saw window,
slider, button, text view,
font panel are some
of the objects we saw.
As you see here, a standard theme in
Cocoa objects is the prefix NX,
which lets you recognize that
these are standard AppKit objects.
Now let's talk a little bit
about Objective-C so we can
start writing some code.
Objective-C, as I said earlier,
is a small superset of C.
It's a superset of ANSI C.
It's got some additional syntax
and a few additional types.
It's got a dynamic object runtime,
by which I mean metadata that goes
with the objects and introspection
facilities that allows making
decisions at runtime about the objects.
We'll see the power of that in our demos.
It's also a single inheritance
object-oriented language.
In Objective-C,
here's how you define a method.
A method is, of course,
an entry point into a class.
Here we have a method
called setWidth colon,
height colon.
One thing to note here is
that the name setWidth colon,
height colon is split
such that each parameter,
the W and the H,
have a name in front of it.
So setWidth colon, height.
The full name of the
method is setWidth colon,
height colon.
But the name is split, which, of course,
for longer method names with four or five
arguments makes it a lot easier to read.
Here, this is how you define a name.
What it seems to be doing
is taking those parameters,
assigning them to maybe
instance variables.
To invoke a method,
which we also say sending a message,
you use the braces.
So here we're sending
a message to an object,
myBox, the setWidth colon,
height colon method.
And in the line below,
you see a nested method call,
where we're first making a
call to array object at index,
which presumably returns
a box or some object.
And then we send that, in turn,
setWidth colon, height colon.
You can nest these method
expressions just like you can
nest function expressions.
expressions.
One other thing is you
can refer to a method,
and this goes along with
the dynamic object runtime.
There is a type, SCL, cell,
short for selector,
which allows you to refer
in this case to the method,
for instance,
set width colon height colon by
using this at selector syntax.
Once you do that,
you have a variable which
represents this method name,
and then you can apply
this to different objects.
Note that this is not a function pointer,
because depending on
what object it's sent to,
it will invoke different pieces of code.
A little more Objective-C.
You can refer to an object by either
saying "box*" or an "id". The difference
here is that these help the compiler
determine what type of methods are
valid when sent to that object.
"box*" indicates an
instance of a box class.
"id" indicates any object.
You can refer to this, meaning yourself,
in the context of an object with self.
And finally, off-note,
is constant strings.
As I mentioned earlier,
we have the NSString class.
We have a construct for creating
constant strings in your code,
and that's @,
here you see the constant string
@helloWorld being assigned to
a variable of type NSString.
Okay, now that we're armed with
some Objective-C knowledge,
let's go ahead and write some code.
And the first thing we're going
to do is do some custom drawing.
To do custom drawing,
you use a class called NSView.
It's an abstract class,
meaning you almost never use it as is,
but you subclass it.
And you would subclass
it to do custom drawing.
And you can also subclass
it to do event handling,
drag and drop, and plenty of other stuff.
It's an abstract class with
a lot of functionality.
To do custom drawing,
you override this method called drawRect.
To do your custom drawing
in the context of a view,
you would use these classes.
An NSBazierPath class
that represents paths.
NSColor, which represents colors.
It's actually a fairly rich class.
It's not just your garden variety RGB,
but it can also represent CMYKs,
patterns,
and a whole other set of color spaces.
The NSImage class,
which represents images.
And note that you can also use the full
functionality given to you by Quartz.
Quartz is a C-based API.
It presents a PDF-based
drawing environment.
And Cocoa uses Quartz.
So the drawing environments
are compatible.
And Quartz is written in C,
so the APIs are in C.
So from Cocoa,
you can call into Quartz all you want.
So in cases where you can't call into
the NS functions for some reason,
Quartz is also available.
So let's do a demo of custom drawing.
Okay, so now we're back in Xcode.
The thing I'm going to do now
is I'm going to add a new class,
a subclass of view, because as I said we
need the subclass view.
We're going to say new file.
And note that there are some
pre-prepared entries here for you:
Objective-C class,
Objective-C document subclass, so on.
View is one of them.
We'll choose that.
This is just a little convenience.
You can just choose the basic class and
do some of the things it does for you.
But we'll choose NSView subclass.
We'll call it .view.
We'll create .view.h,
which you'll see in a minute,
and we'll add it to our target.
As you see,
.view has been added here to our project.
Hide that area.
Now, we're looking at .vue.h,
which describes the interface
to your application.
For this demo, I want to edit the .vue
implementation file.
So I'm going to click this button here,
go to counterpart,
which switches to the .m file,
which is where your class definition,
where your methods sit.
So if we look at .vue.m,
here are the methods.
As a convenience, again,
only as a convenience,
it generated the source code for us,
an init method,
thinking we might want to initialize,
and a draw method,
thinking we might want to draw.
So for now,
let's just look at our draw method.
And let's just customize it.
Now during this demo,
I'm going to be taking advantage
of a demo assistant I have
hidden in the computer here.
And as I type keys, it will type for me.
Let me show you.
There's a comment.
And there's three lines of
code that magically appear.
These three lines of code,
I ask self-- that's the
NSView for the bounds.
Bounds represents the area of the view.
And that's assigned to
this bounds variable,
which is NSRect.
NSRect is nothing magical.
It's just a C structure
that represents a rectangle.
Then we do a nested method call here,
method invocation,
where I ask NSColor class
for the white color.
That returns an instance of color,
which represents white.
And I tell it to set.
So that sets the current
graphics context color to white.
And I call a function rectfill
to fill the bounds with white.
So that clears the view to white.
Note that I could have
used BezierPath here,
but I'm using this function
rectfill to show you Cocoa is
not limited just to classes.
And in the classes and methods,
Cocoa also has some
functions where appropriate.
So this clears our view.
Now let's go ahead and
draw something interesting,
which in this case is a dot.
For that, I will first put a comment,
and then create a rect that
represents the bounds of the dot.
Whoops.
Then I will set the blue color,
just like up here.
And then now I will use a Bezier path,
creating a Bezier path that represents
an oval with this rectangle.
In this case it's a circle
because the rectangle is a square.
And I will tell it to fill.
So this will create a circle and then
fill it with the color we created here.
So let's pretty up this a little bit.
Let's save.
And now I'm going to hit build and run,
Oh, I forgot one very crucial thing.
Let's go back to our demo here.
The thing I forgot is to go into
our interface builder and actually
create the UI for my application.
In interface builder,
I want to go ahead and get
rid of these three things,
which we used earlier.
And instead, I'm going to be using,
under the containers tab, a custom view.
Again, let's follow Ivy's guidelines,
drop our custom view here.
Let's make it size centrally,
just like we did with the text view.
And the one more thing we're going to
do now is tell Interface Builder that
this custom view is of type dot view.
And to do that,
under the classes in the document
window here under classes,
I can either go ahead and
subclass this NS view.
I can hit the right mouse button
or control mouse here to do that.
Another thing I can do is do read files.
[Transcript missing]
So I can come to my custom view here,
and in the inspector,
I can specify its class.
Note that the various NS classes
are listed here already.
I want it to be a subclass of—I want
it to be an instance of dot view.
So I do that, I save here,
I hide interface builder, go into Xcode,
and let's run.
As you see, we now have our window
with the dot in it.
And as I resize the window,
the dot stays fixed relative
to the lower left corner.
That's because the drawing,
the coordinate system is fixed
relative to the lower left corner
of the drawing environment.
You can see the white area here,
which represents the view.
And the view resizes and redraws
automatically as I resize the window.
So, one of the things you do get just
by implementing that few lines of
DrawRect is you get a lot of other
functionality available to you.
Let me show you what I mean.
I can come to dot view and I can
say make subview of scroll view.
Okay, and let's make that
scroll view also sizable.
I'm going to save this.
Go back to Xcode and
let's build and run again.
So notice that suddenly our scroll view,
our view is contained within a
scroll view and we can scroll it.
And again,
just because you've implemented
your view so it knows drawing,
you get scrolling for free.
Let me show you one more
thing you get for free.
Let's undo this scroll view.
Oops, don't want to undo that much.
[Transcript missing]
I want to show you how
you can make it print.
We haven't talked about target/action,
we'll talk about it in five minutes,
but one way to make it print is to
connect the print menu item to our
view and just select print here.
I'll talk about this in a few minutes
if you haven't seen this before.
Let's save.
Back in Xcode, let's build and run again.
If I now were to go
in here and say print,
We have a print panel,
and one thing you'll notice, of course,
we don't have a printer.
If we were able to print,
you would get something like this.
This is the artist's concept drawing of
what the dot might look like on paper.
But if you don't believe me,
I'll do preview,
which is always something you can do
when you're testing your printing.
And the preview application will launch,
and you see that the dot
is printed on that page.
Okay.
Okay, so let's go back to slides, please.
Next thing we want to do is
add some excitement to our demo
and do some event handling.
As I mentioned earlier,
NSVU is your class to do
most of your event handling.
You override methods such as mouse down,
mouse drag, key down,
depending on what you want to do to
handle the appropriate kind of events.
There is also another
class called NSEvent,
which represents various kinds of events,
and you get event-specific
information out of it.
For instance, the mouse location,
the keyboard, what key was pressed,
what tablet pressure, and so on.
You override methods such as mouse down,
mouse drag, key down,
depending on what you want to do to
handle the appropriate kind of events.
There is also another
class called NSEvent,
which represents various kinds of events,
and you get event-specific
information out of it.
For instance, the mouse location,
the keyboard, what key was pressed,
what tablet pressure, and so on.
Now one thing I want to do now is
parameterize some things about our dot.
So we go back to the interface file,
.u.h.
And I'm going to go ahead and
add two instance variables.
Instance variables are declared in
the header file in this area here.
So I'm going to add an instance
variable that represents the
center location of the dot.
And this point is a structure
that represents a point.
I'm going to have a radius for the dot.
It's a floating point number.
Note that coordinates are
floating point numbers,
so we use floating point
numbers where appropriate.
Okay, so now we added two instance
variables to our dot.
I'm going to save this file.
I'm going to switch to .vue.m.
Back in the initWithFrame method,
the place where I said
we do our initialization,
I'm now going to initialize
those two instance variables.
So I'm going to delete this code,
and I'm going to set the center to 100,
both the X and Y locations of my center,
and I'm going to set the radius to 50.
So this is—we're initializing these
variables to their initial values.
Now here we are drawing our
dot using fixed numbers,
so let's replace this line to
use the new instance variables.
Now here we are drawing our
dot using fixed numbers,
so let's replace this line to
use the new instance variables.
[Transcript missing]
To the view's own coordinates
using this method,
convertPointFromView.
This gives us our center.
This is where we clicked.
This is what we want our
center of our dot to be.
And note here that we're just
assigning to our center variable.
Pretty straightforward.
One more thing we want to do now is,
given that now we have
a new center location,
we want to redraw our view.
Instead of calling drawRect,
for instance, to draw our view,
we just basically tell the view
that it needs to be redisplayed.
And then AppKit will redraw your
view at an opportune time later.
What this allows doing is
coalescing various drawing needs
to the top of the event loop,
so you're not drawing
things over and over,
things aren't overlapping, and so on.
So to do that, you tell the view that
needs to be displayed.
Self.sit needs display, yes.
So we take the event,
we assign our center,
and we just tell it needs display.
So let's save and let's run.
Okay, now as I click around,
the dot is redisplayed
at the new location.
Note that when I do this,
because I told the
whole view to redisplay,
the whole bounds of the
view is redisplayed.
In the performance talk on Friday,
you can learn about how you can
do this much more efficiently,
of course.
Here, we're just taking the easy way out.
Let me show you one more thing.
I talked about mouse-dragged as well.
Mouse-drag is an event you get when the
mouse is clicked and it's being dragged.
We'll have mouse-drag do the
same thing as mouse-down,
so we'll just call self-mouse-down.
Let me save.
Let me go ahead and run the app again.
Now, as I click around, the dot moves,
but if I click and drag, again,
the same thing happens.
So the view is being
constantly redisplayed,
being told to set needs
display and so on.
So that is fairly straightforward
to go ahead and make our dot
dance in any way we want.
Okay, let's go back to slides, please.
Okay, again, drawing, event handling,
those are pretty mundane things.
How about some UI elements,
so your app looks like a
Cocoa app or a Mac OS X app?
UI elements are represented
by a class called NSControl,
which is a subclass of NSView.
The daily controls you see,
the regular controls you
see include text field,
button, slider.
We also have some new controls,
a little more sophisticated, token field,
date picker.
These are new in Tiger.
We also have some really
sophisticated controls,
table view, browser.
Browser represents the multi-column
view you see in Finder.
Table view represents
a table of elements.
These are typically made
up of other UI elements and
they're fairly sophisticated,
but they're still subclass of NS control.
There is also this other class
which we won't talk about today.
But let me talk about it.
It's the...
Every control has a cell,
and in some cases,
controls have multiple cells.
Cells are basically what
controls are made up of.
Typically, you just use a control.
However, if you were subclassing
control for your own purposes,
you might find that you need to also
subclass the corresponding cell,
and that's why we're mentioning it here.
And in some cases,
like table views and browsers,
you might be using multiple cells
to get what you want to get done,
to represent multiple pieces of that.
Cells are not subclasses of views.
They are lighter-weight objects.
The main design pattern for
UI elements in Cocoa is this
target action design pattern.
Target action controls have a
target and they have an action.
Target is the object they send a
message to when they're fiddled with.
So you play with the slider and
it says "I've been fiddled with."
The action is the message they send,
so what they actually say.
They don't actually say "I've
been fiddled with." An action
is a single argument method,
always, and we'll see that in our demo.
And note that these
are not magical things.
They're really just instance
variables of controls.
Okay, so armed with that knowledge,
let's go to our next demo.
Grab some water.
The thing we want to do now is want to
be able to change the size of the dot.
Okay, now, to do that,
we're going to be adding a
method called changeSize,
which is an action method.
So this is an action method,
change size colon,
and it has one argument, sender.
And this is what makes an action method.
And the argument, sender,
is the UI element that sent this message.
Now we're assuming that the sender
is something that's capable of
producing a floating point number,
because we want to change
the size of the dot.
So what we're going to do is ask
the sender for its float value.
Most controls have a method called
float value that represents the floating
point value that they've been set to.
We're going to ask for its float
value and we're going to assign it
to our radius instance variable,
which we had added last time.
And again, just like we did up here,
we just need to self set needs display.
So we're going to change the radius,
self set needs display.
Now I want to do one more thing.
We've been adding methods to our m file,
but we have not been
adding them to our h file,
to our interface file.
For methods that you expect to
be called from the outside world,
it's a good idea to do that.
So let's go ahead and add the change
side declaration to our dot view.
As you can see, it's straightforward.
It's just change size colon
with a semicolon representing
that this has this method.
Now we'll see why this is useful.
I'm going to switch back
to interface builder.
Now, in Interface Builder,
I'm going to tell Interface Builder
to re-read that .vue.h file.
So, if I go back into Classes tab here,
I can say, either by right-clicking here
or by going to the Classes menu,
"Read files" or "Read .vue.h."
So this will cause Interface
Builder to re-parse .vue.h,
which means it now knows that, um,
Should know, okay,
let me go back and see one thing.
I'm sorry, this was, this is all proper,
I'm wondering what I could have—let
me get it to read the file again,
just in case.
Let me say parse here,
go back to interface builder,
hide other stuff.
"It's fairly straightforward stuff,
it shouldn't be..." "Okay,
I will change this to IB action,
which is often not necessary.
IB action is another defined for void,
and what it says is it marks
this method explicitly as an
action for IB to recognize.
Let's see if this
actually does the trick.
It often is not needed.
So if I go ahead and reparse the file,
and let's make sure the file
is coming from the right place,
it is, dot view dot h, parse.
Okay, I'm sort of perplexed by this.
Luckily, at this point,
I will quit Interface Builder,
I will go to the oven and pull out
Okay, so there we go.
Pull out a finished version of that.
And that has always worked,
so I'm sort of curious as
to what's going on there.
But if we look at .u.h
in the prepared version,
it looks exactly the same.
And let's go ahead and
Click on mainmenu.nib to
open up our main.nib file.
Notice that if you look at dot view here,
Oh, I know what's wrong.
I'm sorry.
I was just getting confused there.
It's not even... In fact,
I will go back to our original
one and we'll open that up.
Go back, show that there's nothing
magical going on here.
Let's open up our main menu.nib.
So, if I look at the class now, dot view,
you'll see that
[Transcript missing]
The time you see your action
is if you have a slider,
for instance,
and you make a target/action connection.
You make target/action connections
by actually control-clicking on the
UI element that's going to send the
target action and dragging towards the
element that you want the target to be.
So in this case, dot view.
Now I'm still not seeing that there.
I don't know what that's about.
Let's just go back to
our pre-prepared version.
We are back in the interface builder.
We will open our main menu.neb.
So if I make a connection
from here to here,
you'll notice that the actions this
represents includes printfacts,
which were already there,
and now a change size method.
And I just make that connection by
choosing change size and hitting connect.
And this establishes a
target/action connection
between my slider and the view.
So sorry about that.
I know what was going on over there.
But now let's save this.
Let's hide.
And let's go ahead and run our demo.
As you can see,
we can still move the dot around.
We can resize the window.
And as I move this,
the dot will actually resize.
That's because as I move this,
it's sending change size
colon over and over.
And the change size method
is changing the radius,
if you can remember back that far.
And then it's redrawing the view.
So that's what's going on.
The other things we did here, by the way,
when we did the slider was in
the attributes of the slider,
we changed so that we could change
its minimum and maximum values,
the current value.
And we also specified that it
continuously sends action while editing,
which makes it send its
action over and over again.
Okay.
So that was our slider.
So let's go back to slides to talk
a little more about target action.
So, what we saw there was that the
slider's target is the dot view.
Slider has two instance variables,
target and action, and our dot view has a
method called ChangeSize.
The target is set in InterfaceBuilder
to point to the dot view,
and the action is specified
in InterfaceBuilder to be
selector of ChangeSize:.
So this is where you see that
selector business come in.
But note that we didn't have to do
this programmatically or anything.
We were able to specify
this in InterfaceBuilder,
or we were almost able to
specify it in InterfaceBuilder.
In InterfaceBuilder,
stored this information in that Nib file.
As I said earlier, target and action
aren't anything magical.
They're just instance variables,
and you can set them programmatically
using methods setTarget
and setAction if you want.
Okay, now I'm going to talk a little
bit more about target/action,
but before that I want to talk
some about memory management.
[Transcript missing]
A freshly created object,
whether you create it with
alloc and init—alloc/init is the
paradigm for creating new objects,
you allocate it and you initialize
it—or whether you create it by
doing a copy of another object,
a freshly created object has
a reference count of one.
You call retain to add a reference count.
You call release to
remove a reference count.
So this is just reference counting.
Nothing really secret here.
And the object is deallocated when
its reference count reaches zero.
And that happens by the object
being sent a dealloc method,
which is the opposite of alloc.
So let me give you an analogy here,
just to make sure this is clear.
You go into a restaurant and you
tell the waiter you want a table.
So the waiter goes and gets a table.
That's allocating the table.
Then the waiter puts a - well,
it's a fancy place - he puts
a tablecloth on the table,
and even gives you forks
and knives and plates.
That's initializing the table.
And you sit at the table.
So as long as you're
sitting at the table,
the waiter is not going to
come take the table away.
The moment you get up and leave,
you've released the table,
and the waiter will come and
deallocate the table and make
it ready for the next person.
So that's getting rid of it.
Now, while you're sitting there,
if a friend of yours comes by
and sits down at the table,
they also retain the table.
Now,
there are two references on the table.
The waiter is not going to remove
the table until both of you leave.
If eight friends come,
now there are eight
references to the table.
So until the last person leaves,
the table is retained.
Copy Let's make an analogy for copy.
You come into the restaurant and
you see a table that looks gorgeous.
It's got a bunch of people sitting at it,
a good-looking table.
You tell the waiter,
"I want a table just like that." But you
don't want to go sit at that table
because you don't know those people.
So instead, the waiter creates a table
just like that for you.
That's like making a copy of that table,
but it's your own copy.
You don't care what
happens at that table.
You've got your own copy of the table.
Now one more thing I'm going to
mention at this point is auto-release.
I'm going to mention at this point,
I'm not going to talk about
it for the rest of the talk,
but it's an important concept.
It's like release,
but instead of releasing the object now,
it releases the object later.
And this turns out to be pretty handy
given Cocoa's object ownership rules.
And you will see this and probably
use this in your programming of Cocoa.
Now having covered memory management,
let's talk about object
ownership in Cocoa.
Object ownership is important
in dynamic environments,
where object-oriented environments,
where -- you know,
you're constantly passing
objects between things.
People are allocating objects
and returning them to you.
And the question that's always asked is,
who frees this object?
In Cocoa,
the answer is -- there's a consistent
answer for 99.9 percent of the cases,
and that's object ownership is
not transferred across calls.
What this means is if somebody returns
an object to you as a result of a
function call or a method invocation,
you do not free that.
You do not release that thing.
You just use it, you know,
assuming you use it, and that's that.
Same goes for when an object
is passed as an argument.
The
"The person who got the
object does not free it.
They will use it."
If it turns out that an
object is needed long term,
you can retain it and
then release it later on.
So the rule is,
whoever creates an object,
or retains an object,
or copies an object,
whoever is responsible for
incrementing the ref count is
also responsible for releasing it.
So, basically this summarizes that.
You pass someone an object and you
don't care what they do with it.
They will retain it and
release it if they want.
So, with that,
let's look at a little bit more
of target/action and do something
slightly more sophisticated.
If it turns out that an
object is needed long term,
you can retain it and
then release it later on.
So the rule is,
whoever creates an object,
or retains an object,
or copies an object,
whoever is responsible for
incrementing the ref count is
also responsible for releasing it.
If it turns out that an
object is needed long term,
you can retain it and
then release it later on.
So the rule is,
whoever creates an object,
or retains an object,
or copies an object,
whoever is responsible for
incrementing the ref count is
also responsible for releasing it.
So, basically this summarizes that.
You pass someone an object and you
don't care what they do with it.
They will retain it and
release it if they want.
Let's go back to our source file, .u.m.
and let's add our changeColor method.
So, the changeColor method,
we are going to ask sender for its color.
We are assuming that the sender is
something capable of generating a color.
We're going to call a method
called "setColor" on ourselves.
I could have done like here
and just set the color in here,
but I want to show you, just, you know,
let's write an accessor,
a set method to see how it's written.
So we're just going to get this
color from the sender and we're
going to send it to setColor.
Note that here already you're seeing
Cocoa's object ownership rules in action.
We're getting a color from this thing,
but we don't free the color.
We just use it, we don't worry about what
happens to that color.
You know, if we wanted it, we will keep,
hang on to it.
Here we're sending the color
to this method and again,
we don't worry about what
happens in that method.
That method will do the right thing.
So let's go write that method
and you'll see what I mean.
setColor takes a color as an argument.
If the new color is not exactly
the same as the old color,
that's both for optimization
and for a few other reasons,
but basically it's a
good idea to do this.
If the colors aren't the same,
we release the previous
color instance variable.
We make the color instance
variable point to the new color,
but we retain it,
because we want to hang on to it.
The third thing we want to do here,
just like we've done in other places,
like here, is say "set needs display:
yes", which of course,
because we changed state,
we want the view to be redrawn.
So note, this is basically what your
typical set method might look like.
You release the old value,
you retain the new value after
checking they're not the same.
So, now we know how to change the color,
let's do a few more things.
One thing we want to do is make
sure our color is initialized.
So we initialize our
color to the blue color,
and we retain it, we hang on to it,
because we're hanging on to it long term.
In the drawRect method, oh,
one thing we have to do now,
one thing we need to add is,
because we're hanging on to
our color instance variable,
when we're being deallocated,
meaning when the view is going away,
we want to get rid of our
color instance variable.
So for that, we implement the dealloc
method I mentioned earlier.
And we release the color.
So when we're going away,
we make sure all the resources
we hang on to are going away.
And we call super dealloc.
Super is a way you call your
super class implementation.
And that's it.
So typically,
you will have dealloc methods which do...
We do one more thing.
Instead of the blue color here,
we now just set the color we have.
So we just say color set.
So I'm going to save this right now.
And let's go back to interface builder.
Interface builder,
I'm going to pull the slider aside.
I'm going to drag this little control.
This is a color well.
It lets you change colors.
Now let's go ahead to classes
and keeping our fingers crossed,
Let's read files.
Now, we're in, I believe we're in this
directory right now.
Let's just read
that file and now we can make a
connection from our color well here
to the dot view and we choose change
color connect so this is what should
have happened before but anyway demo
gods were taking a lunch break okay
so now we've connected that let's save
let's hide or let's bring up interface
builder and let's build and go okay
so as you can see we can still change
the size and if i click on And here,
the color panel comes up,
and I can now change the color.
You can use any mode of the thing.
You can use the crayon,
any mode in the color panel,
as I said earlier, you can use grayscale,
you can use CMYK and so on.
All these colors are represented
by NSColor and they work in
the context of our application.
Having done all that,
let's go back to Xcode,
let's look at our dot view.
One thing you might be noticing
at this point with dot view is,
it's getting a bit unwieldy.
It's got like 25 lines of code.
That's getting a little too big.
So let's see how we can start
cleaning things up and making
this a better structured app.
And for that, oh,
can we go back to slides?
I'm sorry.
We're going to talk about
Model-View-Controller.
Model-View-Controller is a...
is not a Cocoa-specific design pattern.
You've probably heard about
it used in other cases.
But it is used in Cocoa to create bigger,
better structured applications,
and it makes document-based
apps and so on much more easy
to do and much more of a joy.
So Model-View-Controller is a
design pattern where you break
your application into three pieces:
the model, which is the back end of the
application where your data is,
the view, which is your user interface,
and the controller,
which is the middleman.
The controller usually
has a variety of roles.
It usually manages the connection
between the model and the UI,
and it can have other roles.
In some cases,
controllers can actually be fairly thin,
or you can cut out the middleman
altogether in the very simplest cases.
It turns out that's one
of these cases here.
So we'll look at Dot-View and
we'll see how we can separate
the model and the view pieces.
Here's what our Dot-View looks like now,
before our surgical separation of
the back end and the front end.
The Dot-View has a center, a color,
and a radius.
These are the instance
variables in our class.
After we're done with our surgery,
we're going to have a class called Dot,
which has those three instance variables.
So the Dot class is going
to represent our dot.
And we're going to have a Dot-View class,
and all the Dot-View class is
going to do is point at the dot.
So it's just going to have an instance
variable that represents the dot.
So this is fairly basic MVC,
Model-View-Controller, at this point.
The dot instance variable is
going to point at our dot object.
OK, so let's go to the demo
machine for this piece now.
Okay, so let's go to the demo
This time I'm going to choose
Objective-C class because I just
want a subclass of NSObject.
The dot is just a simple
data-bearing object,
not a subclass of view,
not a subclass of control.
And let's call it dot.m,
also create dot.h.
So, interface builder creates two files:
..h and ..m.
In ..h, we're going to go ahead and
put our instance variables.
point radius and color so the same
instance variables we had today okay
now and let's go declare some methods
for dot we're going to have a set center
method to set the center and now you're
thinking okay we need set radius and
color for now i'm not going to do that
we'll talk about that why and we're
going to add a draw method and some
of you are thinking draw dot is a model
object why does it have a draw method
well it's okay for model objects to
know how to draw in this case it just
knows how to draw but doesn't make any
assumptions about where it's going to
draw what view hierarchy it's in what
the ui element is it just knows its you
know location its size and its color so
when told to draw it can draw itself so
it's an appropriate thing to do here so
we'll just go ahead and add a draw method
so let me now save this and switch to the
dot implementation file dot.m now in the
implementation file of dot we're going
to add an init method as i mentioned
earlier in it is the way you initialize
yourselves in the context of the view
class we saw init with frame which was
how views are created in the case of a
simple and a subject subclass like dot we
would use init so we do init we do super
init and if that succeeds we go ahead
and initialize ourselves set the center
set the radius you've seen this before
and set the color and then we return self
so this is what a typical initializer
might look like you know just like
dot views now let's go ahead and add give
ourselves a dialog method which is again
just like dot view release the color and
return now we declare two methods earlier
let's go add those the draw method this
is again taken from dot view dot view we
create our dot rect we set the color and
we draw the oval okay and finally we said
we're going to add a set center method
let's go ahead and do that set center
is going to set the center instance
variable to the point that's passed in
here okay and for now this is all we're
going to do we're just going to change
the center note that in the context
of dot view we were doing self set needs
display yes but here we're not doing
that because this is just a model object
and it doesn't have any assumptions about
views okay so this takes care of our dot
class let's save this now let's switch
to our dot view dot h in dot view dot h
we want to remove our instance variables
We want to remove these two methods.
Now that's nice.
Getting rid of code is always nice.
Less maintenance, whatever.
Your boss doesn't have to
know you're doing less work.
So now we can switch to .vue.m.
Okay, and do the similar modifications
here to lighten the load a bit.
Turns out we can get
rid of init with frame.
Okay?
Because we don't need to initialize
any of this stuff anymore.
Turns out we can get rid of dialog.
In DrawRect,
which is how the dot view draws itself,
we will leave clearing of the
background because the view
still needs to draw itself.
But instead of all this
code to draw the dot,
we can now tell the—whoops, I'm sorry,
that was a piece I forgot
to show you in dot view,
I mean dot view dot h.
In DrawRect,
which is how the dot view draws itself,
we will leave clearing of the
background because the view
still needs to draw itself.
But instead of all this
code to draw the dot,
we can now tell the—whoops, I'm sorry,
that was a piece I forgot
to show you in dot view,
I mean dot view dot h.
In addition,
we want to declare the instance variable
".", which is two pieces I forgot.
So the ".instance" variable.
Note that we have an
IBOutlet specifier here.
This just specifies
that this is an outlet,
and we'll see what that
means in a few minutes.
An outlet is basically an
instance variable that is
visible to Interface Builder,
and you'll see it in a few seconds.
So let me save this again,
switch back to .view.
So back to DrawRect,
back to the discussion there.
Instead of drawing the dot,
we just draw the dot by
telling the dot to draw.
So all that code is simplified.
Now let's leave our mouse down
and mouse dragged in here,
because these are still
primarily view operations.
And we can get rid of change
size and set color and all this,
because we're not in the business
of changing size anymore.
The view doesn't care anymore.
It's the dot's responsibility
to be doing those things.
So get rid of this code.
So suddenly dot view has come
back to a manageable size.
That's good.
So let's save this file.
Now we need to switch
to interface builder.
Now one thing we want to do is tell
Interface Builder about our dot object.
Let's go ahead and say, "Read files."
The moment we say that,
Interface Builder now knows that there
is a subclass of NSObject called ".
".
Now, why did we do this?
Why did we bring ".
" into the picture?
Because I want to go ahead
and create an instance of ".
".
Creating an instance of ".
" is just like what you did
What you did here,
when you dragged dot view out of here,
you basically instantiated a dot view.
Here I want to instantiate a dot,
but dot does not have a visual
representation on a window
because it's a model object,
so you instantiate with
this menu item here,
instantiate dot.
That adds it to our instances
tab as a new object.
You can see that here, dot.
Okay, well that's good,
so now we have a dot object.
That represents the dot.
Now I want to go ahead to dot view and
I want to reread the dot view file.
Let's go ahead and
read the dot view file.
It's warning me that because we
changed the interface of the file,
it's not compiling with the earlier one.
Let's say replace.
So now the dot view has been changed.
It now knows the new dot view,
not the old dot view.
As a result of this change,
we can now connect dot view to our dot.
Well, what's this connection about?
That's where we're connecting
the dot instance variable of
the dot view to our dot object.
You can see here that
the dot object is here.
It's known to IB now
because we read the file.
So, we're going to use the dot
instance variable to connect
the dot view to our dot object.
So, we're going to use the dot
instance variable to connect
the dot view to our dot object.
You can see here that
the dot object is here.
It's known to IB now
because we read the file.
or bring up Xcode, I'm going to run this.
Oops, failed.
We did one little mistake.
Oh, yes, I forgot to finish some
of the coding here.
Sorry about that.
If we look back at the
By the way,
that was a case of a build failure.
When you click on this little one here,
it tells you that center is undeclared.
Indeed, in my methods here in mousedown,
we still refer to center.
I needed to change the mousedown method.
Instead of doing this,
I just need to tell…
The first step is to set the center.
We tell the dot to set center,
and we don't need to do this anymore.
For now, I will leave the
set-needs-display in place.
So with that, hopefully we're bug free,
let's run our application, let's hide it.
Okay, so, there's our dot,
it still moves around, okay,
and we didn't connect the
slider or the color well,
so we can't do much, so you're thinking,
okay, we did MVC,
now our app is even less capable,
and it's not going to be
bringing any more revenue,
why did we do this?
Well, the magic of MVC is that the
UI and the model are separate,
and that means that you can
tweak the UI in ways which
the model doesn't care about.
An example of what that
means is I can now come here,
drag a new window out, and I can
I can come to my containers tab,
drag a new custom view out.
Let's just put it all the way there.
Okay, let's make our custom view.
I can come to my containers tab,
drag a new custom view out.
Let's just put it all the way there.
Okay, let's make our custom view.
I can come to my containers tab,
drag a new custom view out.
Let's just put it all the way there.
Okay, let's make our custom view.
Well, they are the same,
it's just we got some
connection problem here,
where we got some
synchronization problem.
But, as you can see already,
the promise of MVC is
beginning to shine through.
I have the same dot visible in two
different windows and we're able to
add a second view to our dot with,
you know, no code.
It was just in an interface builder.
So, what do we need to do to get these
dots to synchronize each other?
And so this now is when we start talking
about a few other things that make,
you know,
expand the picture of MVC in Cocoa.
So if we can go back to slides.
So now we're going to talk about KVC.
Now, we have MVC, we have KVC.
Don't confuse these with MFC or KFC.
One's a fried chicken
and one's something else.
KVC is key-valley coding.
It's a mechanism to set or get the
properties of an object indirectly.
What I mean by that is,
You use these methods:
setValueForKey and valueForKey.
The property is the property
you want to set or get.
With KVC,
instead of calling setColor on my dot,
I would call this method setValue:forKey,
pass the string color,
that's the property,
and I would pass the new value.
Now you're thinking,
"So I have to go write a set
value for key methods so that
KVC works?" The answer is no.
KVC uses an object's existing
accessor methods or its instance
variables to do its job.
So, if you have an instance
variable named color,
or if you have accessor
methods named setColor:
and color, which is the way you would
set and get the color,
note that you can also have setColor:
and getColor if you would
like to name your things gets.
In Cocoa we often don't do that,
but that's another naming style.
Assuming you have one of these two ways,
and a bunch of other possibilities,
your dot object becomes
KVC compliant for the property color.
And you don't have to write any code,
it's automatic.
If you have a variable called color,
you are KVC compliant
for the color property.
That's fairly simple.
Now let's talk about key-value
observing just quickly,
because this is needed
to complete the picture.
Key-value observing, KVO,
enables observing changes
in KVC compliant properties.
What I mean by that is,
if you have a KVC compliant
property color,
you can observe changes to color.
Here's the method you use.
This is the gnarliest method
I'm going to show today.
Luckily,
we won't be using two of its arguments,
so just ignore them.
You can add
You can observe some object's property
by adding yourself—so this argument here,
observer—for the property,
and you send it to the
object you want to observe.
That's what this does.
And whenever that property changes,
the observer will get this method:
observe value for keypath,
the property in question, and of object.
Now, a whole lot of methods here.
It's probably best to
show this in action,
and that's what we'll do right now.
A little KVO to see our dots work better.
Okay, so it turns out this is just in
Xcode now because our IB connections
are all done and they should,
you know, they're pretty close.
Okay, in Xcode,
Okay,
so turns out this is just in Xcode now,
because our ID connections are all done,
and they should, you know,
they're pretty close.
Okay, in Xcode,
we're gonna have to do this.
So this is not like the init method,
which is fairly early.
This is a, this is called after
everything's been created,
so the world is a little more consistent.
So in AwakeFromNib,
we establish our observations.
And the way we do that is we tell
the dot object to add observer self.
So the view is becoming an observer
of dot for key path radius,
'cause we wanna observe the
changing of the radius and the
arguments you're supposed to ignore.
Now we do that two more times.
Not like that.
Click here and do it again.
For center and for color.
So we're observing the properties
of the dot we care about.
Okay?
So pretty straightforward,
just three observations.
Now the next step, as you may remember,
is now you need to implement
the method which gets called
when the observation is done,
when the thing changes.
And that's this method.
Observe value for key path
of object change context.
And in this method, this method will get
called whenever the radius,
the center, or the color changes.
But I don't really
care which one changes.
All I wanna do is redraw the view.
So all we're gonna do is say
self set needs display yes.
That's all we're gonna do whenever
we hear that there's a change.
Now of course in other cases,
you might wanna do more
specialized things.
Now for completeness,
I will show you one more
thing you should do,
and that's to remove yourself as an
observer at the appropriate time.
This could be,
depending on the application,
it'll be different.
In this case,
we do it in the dialog method.
So as the view is being deallocated,
it should remove itself as an
observer for the three variables
that it added itself for.
So that's these three lines:
removeObserver for keypath,
removeObserver for keypath.
Pretty straightforward.
Now let's come down here.
The drawRack doesn't change.
There's one more change
we can do right now.
Note that before we were cheating.
In mouse down,
in addition to setting the center,
we were causing the
view to be redisplayed.
And that explained why the view
itself updated when I clicked in it,
but the other view didn't,
because the other view did
not know to display itself.
But now that we have this
great observer mechanism,
I can remove this line of code here,
because
Here we just tell the dot,
"Here's your new location." And the dot
will hopefully tell us that its location
changed and will redisplay everything.
So, let me save,
let me go back to interface builder,
I'm sorry, not interface builder,
let me build and run.
Click the application.
Build and run.
So now, if we did it right,
the demo gods are with us.
As I click here and move,
the other dot also moves.
They are perfectly in sync,
and they are both doing
self-statement display.
They don't know about each other,
and the good thing is our dot object,
the model object,
knows nothing about these views.
Absolutely nothing.
It's just told to draw in each view
by the view when the time comes.
So, there you go.
Now, one last thing I want to
do is these dots here,
the slider and the color, well,
aren't connected,
and let's hook those up.
So back to the slides, please.
And that brings us to bindings.
Now bindings was introduced—it's a
technology introduced in Panther.
It's a…
It's a technology that is used
to automatically keep attributes
of different objects in sync,
or to be a little more exact,
it keeps model and view values
synchronized and it eliminates the
glue code you often need to create.
for that purpose.
By glue code I mean,
it's the kind of code where you
respond to the slider changing,
it might be an action method,
and as a result of slider changing
you wanna update your dot size,
and maybe you wanna go
update a text field,
maybe you're gonna go change
something in a database and so on.
You're writing glue code all the time.
In many cases, even in Cocoa if you're
using target action such,
you find yourself writing
glue code over and over.
And this is what bindings illuminates.
And we'll see of course how
that is with another demo.
Bindings leverages KVC and KVO,
and it fits very well with MVC.
So, and again,
we'll see how bindings can be
added to this application easily.
So exactly what bindings lets you
do is it lets you bind attributes of
views to properties of model objects.
That's worth repeating.
There you go.
And it's worth showing a picture for.
So here's our dot.
So the dot has the properties,
it's a model object, that's properties,
center, color and radius.
Here's our slider.
Now, I've removed the target/action
methods from slider in this
picture because now we're not
dealing with target/action anymore.
Instead,
we're just looking at the value of the
slider as an attribute of the slider.
With bindings,
I bind the floating point value of
the slider to the floating point
radius of the property of our model.
Similarly, I have a color well,
and I bind the color value of
that to the color value of my dot.
So with bindings, this is the kind of
connection you establish.
The good thing here is that what this
implies is if I change the dot's color,
the color well will change.
If I change the color well's color,
the dot's color will change.
So it's a two-way binding.
And bindings, of course, uses KVO,
the observing technology we saw earlier,
under the scenes to get this to happen.
If you were to call a binding method to
establish the binding programmatically,
you would use this method.
Bind colon to object, blah, blah.
Here's how it would look like.
I would tell the slider to bind its value
to object dot to its property radius.
This is how you would do it.
Luckily, you almost never call this
method programmatically,
because bindings are usually
established in Interface Builder,
as we'll see right now.
Okay,
if we can switch to the demo machine.
The good thing is,
I'm talking about bindings
and interface builder,
but this part of the demo
doesn't involve Xcode anymore.
It's just interface builder.
So let's switch to interface builder.
So here's our window one,
here's our slider.
Now for this part,
for establishing bindings,
you go to the bindings
pane of our inspector here.
Okay?
And you'll see that
slider has its max value,
its min value,
and its value ready to be bound.
So these are the attributes
of a slider you can bind.
It's also got enabled, hidden, and so on.
And it also has tooltips.
So you can bind any one of these.
In this case we're interested in binding
the value so I'm going to click here.
Now you can bind to any
object that Interface Builder
knows about in your Nib file.
Well, it knows about the dot because
it's right there in our document.
So I'm going to bind the
slider's value to the dot object.
I'm going to bind it
to the keypath radius.
That's the property.
By keypath, I mean property there.
So I've now established the binding
between the value and the dot's radius.
Let's do the same thing
with the color well.
I'm going to bind it to the dot.
I'm going to bind it
to the keypath color.
So let's go ahead and save.
And let's go back to Xcode and run.
Let's move this.
So there you go.
Just with two connections
and interface builder,
we're able to bind that slider to
automatically track the dot and
the two dots also track each other.
And same with color.
I can bring up the color panel
and I can change the color.
And again, this is now bound to the
dot's color value and so on.
And of course, bindings,
this is not the only
thing bindings gives you.
Let me show you the little
other magic of bindings.
I can make my slider smaller.
I can go to the text here.
I can drag out the text field,
as you can see.
And again, I can go to the value binding
of the text view here.
So if I go to, here's the attributes,
go back to bindings.
Here's the value binding.
I'm going to look in there and
set the value of the text field
to be the same as the radius.
Save.
Go back to Xcode.
Run.
As I move the slider,
not only is the dot's radius changing,
but now because this text field
has been bound to the radius,
the text field is also showing you the
exact same value as the slider does.
So as you can see, without any glue code,
without writing any code to
bind those things together,
you know, and make sure they're in sync,
we are keeping things in sync.
The good thing here also is
that in the case situation here,
the dots, the model values from the dot,
the fact that it's blue and
the size is 50 and so on,
are automatically also reflected
in these elements at launch time.
Okay, so just to,
if we can go back to the slides,
just to show you a picture of what
we did there with the text field,
we added a text field and we bound
the value to the radius of the dot.
Again, you can establish multiple
bindings to the same property
and they will be kept in sync.
There's a lot of magic and a lot of
great stuff in bindings and especially
when you start using controllers,
which AppKit has support for,
you can actually use tables,
outline views, browsers and so on in your
applications with writing hardly
any code or no code at all.
And you can go to the bindings talk,
which I think is tomorrow,
to see more about bindings.
Okay, so what we saw today is
an overview of Cocoa,
Objective-C, Xcode/IB,
and some fundamental Cocoa topics:
drawing, event handling, target/action,
object ownership, KVC/KVOMVC,
and of course, bindings.
And we also saw, hopefully,
that simple things were simple,
meaning very little code is needed,
and even complex things are possible
where we had to resort to maybe even
using observers for our custom views.
So hopefully, you know,
that idea got through.
You can go to the Tips and Tricks talk,
Cocoa Tips and Tricks talk,
tomorrow to see more of this
simple things simple and complex
things possible theme with further
demos and further advanced things.
Now some things we didn't see.
There's a lot of stuff in Cocoa and,
as I said,
a few good solid design patterns.
And the few we didn't
see include delegation,
which involves objects
helping each other.
That's a powerful design
paradigm that we didn't see,
but you probably need to be aware of.
Notifications, which is where objects are
telling other objects things.
Categories,
where you can add stuff to objects,
add functionality to objects.
Data sources, where again,
objects are helping other objects.
And immutability,
where objects refuse to be changed.
These are some other design patterns that
you probably will become familiar with,
you'll run across in learning Cocoa.
Other things we don't see
include some features of Cocoa,
and here is a not certainly
comprehensive list,
but document architecture, undo,
localization, etc.
A lot of great features.
There are also other frameworks
which are not in the Cocoa umbrella
and are not core Cocoa frameworks,
but provide Objective-C APIs that
can be used easily from Cocoa.
And one of those is, of course,
the core data framework
that you saw yesterday.
The resources for you to learn more,
there's the Apple Developer Connection,
which has the Cocoa page.
And in there,
there's Getting Started with Cocoa,
which is fairly useful as it has links to
many resources that you want to follow.
The O'Reilly books for Cocoa,
there are some pretty good
books for Cocoa and Objective-C.
And there are other books,
including Aaron Hillegas'
programming Cocoa book and a
few other third-party books.
They're all pretty good.
Apple and Omni both have
developer mailing lists.
And, of course,
the sessions here at WWDC.
There's a bunch of just core
Cocoa talks and many other talks
related to Cocoa and Objective-C API.
So I hope you get a chance
to see them and enjoy them.
And that's it for my part.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.